meet the hyperactive
short-tailed shrew under stress
the shrews heartbeats at
thirteen hundred times per
minute and the Shrew burns so
much energy if it misses one
meal it can die so it's under
stress
most of the time the shrews life
is simple in this Virginia
garden hunt for food for an hour
sleep for an hour glands on the
Shrew stomach give off a musky
smell which means that a
predator needs a pretty strong
stomach to take one on the
garter snake is up for it
this is one of the great hunters
in a backyard garden it taste
the air with its time and picks
up a whiff of the musky shrew
the garter snake has steel trap
jaws he's ready to tussle but
the snake is the one without
venom the short-tailed shrew on
the other hand is the only North
American mammal with a poisonous
bike that's why the Shrew isn't
shy about battle the Shrew goes
right for the garter snakes neck
yeah
oh the snake is in big trouble
its muscles go slack its
breathing slows paralysis will
soon set in if the Shrew left
alone instead the Shrew makes a
feast of its phone in a garden
shed another shrew looks for a
meal but they have terrible
eyesight and their solitary
animals so these two shrews
aren't aware of each other until
they bumble into each other and
then this garden isn't big
enough for the bonus this is not
a fast motion effect this is a
real-time battle between two
hyperactive short tail shrews
the winner gets the other's
territory the loser probably
ends up as lunch let's slow it
down so you can see just how
extreme this dance of death
really it's this is just like
professional WrestleMania
even though both contestants
have poisonous bites experts
aren't sure shoes are immune
from their own species venom
battles like this can go on for
over a half an hour
who's going to emerge the victor
look at that tiny bike lights
i'll wait a minute it looks like
it's going to be a draw each
combatant retreats to its home
hurt to lick its wounds and plan
the next battle